
The Bird Flying Fog

They had been married for fifty years before she felt his hands around her throat.  She sat at the dining room table, the yellow green shag and ornate wall paper looking on.  Everything was stopped as he throttled and throttled her.  Steam rose from the vegetables and meat on the table.  His plate sat full and his silverware untouched: his chair pushed out and empty.  Florescent light from the kitchen and nutritious orange from the lamp behind her commingled.  
It didn’t hurt.  The moment didn’t feel violent – just quiet.  She looked up at his face.  The effigy of the man she loved.  He looked like his soul was sneaking out the back.  He wore a look of vague confusion, of senility.  His body sagged, but those strong, rough hands of his still held the vitality of his middle years.  His gardener’s hands.  His green thumbs, they hugged her larynx.  Her body bounced gently and resolutely against the wicker back of her chair under the sway of those hands.  Her bones were more like cartilage these days.  Her body was light like a bird’s.  She got ready for her flight.  He couldn’t remember why he was shaking her.  Something had gotten lost in the last few minutes or in the last few years.  The foundation was gone from under the house.  The shag carpet was a swamp, and every once in a while he could feel –
He saw her eyes looking up at him, her blue grey If he could just Better not stop shaking.  He remembered her face at twenty.  Their first home that She looked scared and the placid Goddamn Bitch.  
Love.
She felt her legs disappear first, then her hands.  Then his hands went too.  All these years of weary, weary, weariness were lifting out of her one by one.  These years of this house and just-keeping-him-alive, all the while her time running out.  The image of Michael dropping a box of toothpicks once, that was her soul, toothpicks from a box.  Only flying, not falling – her soul was years and years, lifting out of her one by one by one, small and balsa, until they were gone.
and she went slack in his hands
what to do, so he just
kept shaking
	maybe she’ll wake up, he thought, an image of her awake, and another - snowfall on foliage.
He couldn’t use the phone any more, so it wasn’t until Tuesday, when the cleaning lady came that the body was found.  He’d evidently tried to tidy up the dishes – moving most to the kitchen, and a few to the bathroom.
He answered the door after the long shuffling walk from his easy chair by the television.  It’d been two days since then If he could just-remember…
He looked agitated this morning.  “Good morning, Mr. Fellman.  How are you today?”
He mumbled, fumbled for the word.  The tip of his tongue – the idea was in a bubble at the front of his mind.  He could - her face.
“I can’t remember these days,” he said, “If I could – the… name.”  His eyes moistening and his wrinkled skin looked thirsty.
“Take your time Mr. Fellman.”
He stared directly at her for several seconds and finally said, “Dolly.”
“Your daughter?  She lives in California doesn’t she?”
“No, uh.”  He was openly weeping now.  He couldn’t remember why.
“Can I come inside the house, Mr. Fellman?”  She felt a growing dread.  This was a long time for him to hold to one topic.  He hesitated, then understood what she wanted, and stepped awkwardly backwards out of the way.  From where she stood she could see the entirety of the kitchen, which was unusually cluttered, and through the portal beyond, a thin slice of the dining room.  Mrs. Fellman’s hand was visible – upturned on the carpet.  Her arm was lit by a sunspot, and dust danced above her fingertips.
“Oh lord – Vera!”  She nearly upset the old man as she ran past him.  Later, she used the telephone.  Michael’s eyes had dried, and he watched the whole scene with a placid expression – with an emotion somewhere between resignation and incomprehension.
After a little while, he turned his head.  He found himself in a yard.  He turned his head some more, and his body with it.  Green lawn.  A white door.  A fence.  He turned back to the direction he had been moving with a vague sense of purpose.  Dolly… Vera.  Time to shave.
Vera.  He shuffled to a familiar lawn chair and eased himself into it.  A lady approached.  Vera.  She was dressed in white.  Where – the army had a... he thought about his past. A – the tree.  If he could only… a bird.  A bird in the tree.  Time to shave.
“Mr. Fellman?”  Vera.  “Mr. Fellman?  I’m your nurse.  It’s time for your pills.  Would it be all right if I helped you?”  Vera.
She didn’t know what to do with this one, exactly, when he didn’t respond.  With the others it was simple to gently guide them, to speak in soothing tones.  But this one – she always had the sense that he was under there somewhere, thinking meaningful but incommunicable thoughts.  Like a river – a river ran beneath him.  It was almost painful to interrupt his reveries.  He killed his wife, you know.  Then he did the dishes for her.
“Mr. Fellman, I have your pills.  Will you take them?  I’m your nurse, Elisa.”
He slowly, slowly he turned his head up to face her, but his eyes stayed focused on a bird in the tree by the fence.  “You – see,” he said, “I’m there.  That’s, if.”  There was a long pause. “I can’t remember these days.  If…”
“Yes?”  Elisa, 27, was transfixed.  In response to her question he looked foggily up at her and locked onto her eyes.  He hung onto her pupils like driftwood in a sea.  His eyes were dry and gently red.  He thought very carefully.
“It’s so, alone.”  She heard these words and then proffered him the little plastic cup with the tumbling pharmaceuticals.  He looked relieved – he’d forgotten his thought.  He slowly took the cup and then remembered what to do with it.  He took the pills in his mouth, then took the identical little cup of water from her and drank it down.
“You miss your wife, don’t you Mr. Fellman?  You miss your wife, Vera.” Elisa said, watching the minutiae of his face.
“Oh, umm.”  He couldn’t recall.  “I remember these days.”  
After a minute, Elisa padded away, and several months went by for Michael Fellman.  Though his health continued to decline as it had done for the last decade, he was not much worse off a year later.  To look at him, to converse with him, you might get the impression that he had finally forgotten that he was ill, had forgotten to deteriorate.  His life was a stasis; his day a schedule maintained by nursing professionals.
He spent the majority of his time during the nicer months outdoors, because the home had such a well-kept garden.  Though he couldn’t place his affinity for the garden, or even realize that he had an affinity, his wanderings had always found an end for the day once he arrived there.  He also didn’t realize that he commonly sat in the same white lawn chair; third from the left.  It was a standard task, shared amongst the nurses, to retrieve him at sunset from his place by the violets.
One day he walked past the game room, slowly, cautiously; he was aware his frailty.  When he reached an open doorway, he stopped, transfixed by the sudden sunlight. He stepped outside.  On either side of the door way, the rhododendrons were in bloom.  He smiled his weak smile and started to bend over to smell them.  All around the yard, nurses like nervous rabbits poked up their heads – worried for a fall.  After he had expended his three or so inches of flexibility and balance, he stopped his descent and breathed in deeply.  A zephyr memory of the color Green scratched at his palms – a whiff of chlorophyll stains.
He straightened back up and began again to move slowly forward – as always with the sense of a mission.  Slowly though, he came once more to a standstill.  Something had caught his eye.  He turned his head to the right.  A cat stood stalk still, staring directly at him.  She was deepest white with long hair and green-yellow eyes.  She too looked like a nervous rabbit, but less mortal, and more potent.
Cat.  He could remember. Cat.  His rhododendron smile was back.  His eyes became hidden in wrinkles.  “She’ll come her, Pusscat!”  In his excitement, a string of incoherent vowels and stuttered consonants escaped him; scraps of words.  Then, “Kit, cat.”  The cat loosened up.  It walked slowly and easily toward him.  It was already purring, and, like a cat, it rubbed up against his tweed pant legs.  “Kit,” he said.  The cat just waited now.
Michael forgot about his new friend, and began to move in the direction that seemed to fit him best – towards his chair.  The nursing staff continued to watch him, and to watch the cat.  It followed him as he moved, like a familiar.
When he finally sat, the cat was still with him.  He rediscovered its presence when it jumped into his lap.  He looked down at it, into its eyes, which were in turn looking into his.  A slight breeze blew through the trees beyond the bushes.  While he stared vacantly at the cat on his lap, a bird chirped in the distance.  The cat turned its head.  He continued to stare at it just as before.  Breath passed rhythmically through his old man nostrils.  The song of the wind-chime made its presence known, and its endless mindless melody merged with the moment – on and on and on.
All of a sudden, the cat leapt from his lap, bounded across the yard, leapt seamlessly to the top of the red board fence, and without hesitation, it was gone.  The nurses relaxed and returned to their duties.  After several minutes, Michael Fellman’s chin fell by degrees down to his chest.  A bird sang ceaselessly from the bushes, and the fog was finally parted.